The first thing I am doing to learn GitHub is watch a YouTube Video "1.1: Introduction - Git and GitHub for Poets" at https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=BCQHnlnPusY&feature=youtu.be.

I am adding some new stuff into the Master at the top.

Keywords:
Repository:  A Folder for your project.  Actually the reposity may contain many files.
Commit:       Save the file.
Git Hash:  Every git file that is committed will have unique hash value for each commit of the file. When you click on the history and   point and click on any version of the file.  The new file opens: URL contains the filename & hash value. 
Ex: https://github.com/DMoonesinghe/AZ-Learning/blob/ac3f7b459dde7ca775d8d870382834a8811ef20c/GitHubLearning

Branch:  Branch creates a separate project that branches off the first project.  It is created by doing one of two things:
          1. Saving the new edits to the Master as a different branch while commiting.
          2. Or create a branch at the begning before opening the file itself.

Graph:   Graph is graphical view of the branching of the repo.  To get to that; Click on Insights tab at the top.  
          On the next screen click on the 'Network' on the left; now it will show you the graphical view of the braches from the master.


How-To:
How To Edit a file on :   Click on the file to bring it to the forefront.  Then click on the pen icon on the top right of the edit frame.
                              Now youre file is in edit mode.  You can edit the file.
                              
How Make Pull Request:    You can offer your changes to the master as a 'pull request'; by clicking on 'Create Pull Request'  
                              then adding comments on what changes are on this pull request.
                          
                          After the pull request is offered the Github makes sure there are no conflicts; if there are no conflicts 
                          it offers the pull request be merged by giving you a green button to 'merge pull' request.
                          
                          When you merge the pull request; then Github offers to delete the branch.  You can delete that branch 
                          since all the edits merged.  If you don't delete this branch will exist and you can add more changes to the branch 
                          and offer the new changes again with a new pull request.
